---
layout: page
title: "Dice Notation"
nav_order: 1
parent: "Appendices"
---

# What is Dice Notation?
{: .no_toc }
Dice notation is a system of writing numbers and operations used in role-playing games (RPGs) to denote the number of dice to be rolled, as well as the number of faces on the dice, and any additional modifiers to be applied to the dice roll. This notation is often used to simulate probability and randomness for combat, or other events that occur in the game.

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## How Does Dice Notation Work?
The basic format for dice notation is `XdY+Z`, where: 
- X is the number of dice to be rolled 
- Y is the number of faces on each die 
- Z is an optional modifier to add or subtract from the total result

For example, `3d6+2` would indicate that three six-sided dice should be rolled, with two added to the total result.

The result of a dice roll can be a number from 1 to the number of faces on the die (e.g. 1-6 for a six-sided die). If multiple dice are rolled, the results are added together to form the total result. For example, `1d6` would produce a result between 1 and 6,

## Complex Dice Notation
Dice notation can become more complex when multiple dice groups are used. For example, `2d20+5d6+3` would indicate that two twenty-sided dice should be rolled and added together, followed by five six-sided dice and then a modifier of three added to the total. The result of this roll could range from 2 to 83 (2-20 for the two twenty-sided dice, plus 5-30 for the five six-sided dice, plus 3).

Likewise, `4d10-2d4+7` would indicate that four ten-sided dice should be rolled and subtracted from two four-sided dice, with a modifier of seven added to the total. The result of this roll could range from -4 to 31 (4-40 for the four ten-sided dice, minus 2-8 for the two four-sided dice, plus 7).

The possibilities are nearly endless, and the complexity of dice notation can be used to simulate a variety of events. With the help of dice notation, role-playing games can create a sense of randomness and excitement that would otherwise be difficult to replicate.