---
layout: page
title: "Project 1: Dice Notation"
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---

# Project 1: Dice Notation

Adventure Quest is an adventure game that will take inspiration from table top
role playing games such as Dungeons & Dragons, Swords & Sorcery, and Fate Core.
In these games, randomness is often accomplished by rolling one or more dice.
Adventure Quest will model its randomness in the same way!

That said, we're not talking about traditional 6 sided die. No, no, no! These
games bring out giant sacks of dice with varying sizes and combinations.

![Dice Goblin]

In this project, you will learn about [Dice Notation] and implement a dice
notation parser, roller, and analyzer.

{% include demo.html path="/demos/project1/index.html" %}

## [1.1 Setup]

In this chapter, you will use **GitHub Desktop** to clone and import the
`Adventure Quest` project template into **Unity Hub**.

## [1.2 Modeling a Die]

In this chapter, you will have written a `Die` class which models a multi-sided
die that can be rolled. Additionally, you will learn how to use the Unity Test
Framework to test the `Die` class, giving you confidence that it works as
expected.

## [1.3: Creating a Die Roller Scene]

In this chapter, you will create a Scene with a button that connects to an
instance of the `Die` class. When the button is clicked, the `Die` is rolled and
the result is reported to the console.

## [1.4: Adding an OnRoll Event]

In this chapter, you will learn how to add UnityEvents to your scripts which
allow you to update elements on the screen when a `Die` is rolled.

## [1.5: Die Button Prefab]

In this chapter, you learn how to create a `Prefab` for a `Die Button` to manage
the complexity of adding new buttons and updating existing buttons throughout
your project.

## [1.6: Dice Group]

In this chapter, you will write a `DiceGroup` class which represents a group of
like sided dice that can be rolled together.

## [1.7: Dice Group Roller]

In this chapter, you will use everything you've learned thus far (and more) to
implement a `Dice Group Roller` that allows the user to specify a `DiceGroup`
and roll it.

## [1.8: Dice Pool]

In this chapter, you will define a `DicePool` **class** which models a
collection of `DiceGroup`s that are rolled together. For example, `2d4 + 3d6 +
7d8`.

## [1.9: Dice Analyzer]

In this chapter, you will implement a Dice Analyzer which allows the user to
examine the probabilities associated with a user defined `DicePool`.

{% include Links.md %}