---
layout: page
title: "Project 1: Dice Notation"
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---

# Project 1: Dice Notation
{: .no_toc }

Adventure Quest is an adventure game that will take inspiration from table top
role playing games such as Dungeons & Dragons, Swords & Sorcery, and Fate Core.
In these games, randomness is often accomplished by rolling one or more dice.
Adventure Quest will model its randomness in the same way!

That said, we're not talking about traditional 6 sided die. No, no, no! These
games bring out giant sacks of dice with varying sizes and combinations.

![Dice Goblin]

In this project, you will learn about [Dice Notation] and implement a dice
notation parser, roller, and analyzer.

{% include demo.html path="demos/project1/index.html" %}

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

# What is Dice Notation?
Dice notation is a system of writing numbers and operations used in role-playing
games (RPGs) to denote the number of dice to be rolled, as well as the number of
faces on the dice, and any additional modifiers to be applied to the dice roll.
This notation is often used to simulate probability and randomness for combat,
or other events that occur in the game.

## How Does Dice Notation Work?
The basic format for dice notation is `XdY+Z`, where: 
- X is the number of dice to be rolled 
- Y is the number of faces on each die 
- Z is an optional modifier to add or subtract from the total result

For example, `3d6+2` would indicate that three six-sided dice should be rolled,
with two added to the total result.

The result of a dice roll can be a number from 1 to the number of faces on the
die (e.g. 1-6 for a six-sided die). If multiple dice are rolled, the results are
added together to form the total result. For example, `1d6` would produce a
result between 1 and 6,

## Complex Dice Notation
Dice notation can become more complex when multiple dice groups are used. For
example, `2d20+5d6+3` would indicate that two twenty-sided dice should be rolled
and added together, followed by five six-sided dice and then a modifier of three
added to the total. The result of this roll could range from 2 to 83 (2-20 for
the two twenty-sided dice, plus 5-30 for the five six-sided dice, plus 3).

Likewise, `4d10-2d4+7` would indicate that four ten-sided dice should be rolled
and subtracted from two four-sided dice, with a modifier of seven added to the
total. The result of this roll could range from -4 to 31 (4-40 for the four
ten-sided dice, minus 2-8 for the two four-sided dice, plus 7).

The possibilities are nearly endless, and the complexity of dice notation can be
used to simulate a variety of events. With the help of dice notation,
role-playing games can create a sense of randomness and excitement that would
otherwise be difficult to replicate.

## [1.1 Setup]

In this chapter, you will use **GitHub Desktop** to clone and import the
`Adventure Quest` project template into **Unity Hub**.

## [1.2 Modeling a Die]

In this chapter, you will have written a `Die` class which models a multi-sided
die that can be rolled. Additionally, you will learn how to use the Unity Test
Framework to test the `Die` class, giving you confidence that it works as
expected.

## [1.3: Creating a Die Roller Scene]

In this chapter, you will create a Scene with a button that connects to an
instance of the `Die` class. When the button is clicked, the `Die` is rolled and
the result is reported to the console.

## [1.4: Adding an OnRoll Event]

In this chapter, you will learn how to add UnityEvents to your scripts which
allow you to update elements on the screen when a `Die` is rolled.

## [1.5: Die Button Prefab]

In this chapter, you learn how to create a `Prefab` for a `Die Button` to manage
the complexity of adding new buttons and updating existing buttons throughout
your project.

## [1.6: Dice Group]

In this chapter, you will write a `DiceGroup` class which represents a group of
like sided dice that can be rolled together.

## [1.7: Dice Group Roller]

In this chapter, you will use everything you've learned thus far (and more) to
implement a `Dice Group Roller` that allows the user to specify a `DiceGroup`
and roll it.

## [1.8: Dice Pool]

In this chapter, you will define a `DicePool` **class** which models a
collection of `DiceGroup`s that are rolled together. For example, `2d4 + 3d6 +
7d8`.

## [1.9: Dice Analyzer]

In this chapter, you will implement a Dice Analyzer which allows the user to
examine the probabilities associated with a user defined `DicePool`.

{% include Links.md %}