---
layout: page
title: "For Loops"
nav_order: 1
parent: "Tutorials"
---

# Unity
{: .no_toc }


<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

# Traditional For Loops in C#

In C#, traditional for loops are an important part of the language and are often
used to iterate over data collections or to repeat certain tasks. In this
tutorial, we will explore how to write and use traditional for loops in C#. 

## Syntax

The syntax of a traditional for loop in C# is as follows:

```csharp
for (initialization; condition; iteration)
{
    // code block to be executed
}
```

The initialization is a statement that is run before the loop starts. This can
include declaring a starting value for a counter, for example. The condition is
a boolean expression that will be evaluated before each iteration of the loop.
The iteration statement is run after each iteration of the loop. This can be
used to increment or decrement a counter, for example. The code block is the set
of instructions that will be run each time the loop is executed. 

## Example 1

In this example, we will use a traditional for loop to print out the numbers
from 1 to 10. 

```csharp
int counter = 1; 
for (counter = 1; counter <= 10; counter++) 
{ 
    Console.WriteLine(counter); 
}
```

Output:
```
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
```

## Example 2

In this example, we will use a traditional for loop to print out the characters
of a string. 

```csharp
string str = "Hello World!"; 
for (int i = 0; i < str.Length; i++) 
{ 
    Console.WriteLine(str[i]); 
}
```

Output:
```
H
e
l
l
o
 
W
o
r
l
d
!
```

## Example 3

In this example, we will use a traditional for loop to calculate the sum of the
numbers from 1 to 10. 

```csharp
int sum = 0; 
for (int i = 1; i <= 10; i++) 
{ 
    sum += i; 
}
Console.WriteLine(sum);
```

Output:
```
55
```

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, we explored how to write and use traditional for loops in C#.
We looked at the syntax of the for loop and saw how it uses an initialization,
condition, and iteration statement to control the loop. We also explored 3
examples of using for loops to perform various tasks. With the knowledge gained
in this tutorial, you should now be able to use traditional for loops in C#.