---
layout: page
title: "Arrays"
nav_order: 2
parent: "Tutorials"
---

<!--
Generated by openai and modified for readability and understanding
Write a tutorial covering the benefits and uses of arrays in C#.
The tutorial should explain how to declare an array using different types including int and string.
The tutorial should explain the different ways to initialize an array.
The tutorial should explain how to check the length of an array.
The tutorial should explain how to access and set values in an array.
The tutorial should explain how to loop over an array using a traditional for loop
The tutorial should explain how to loop over an array using a foreach loop.
The tutorial should have several examples throughout showing the output of the code.

The end of the tutorial should have an example showing how to declare an array of strings which are members of the justice league of america. The array should be called justiceLeague. The example should show how to loop through the array and print each member's name in a list that starts with the number 1.

The tutorial should be written in markdown
-->
# Introduction to Arrays in C#
{: .no_toc }

Arrays are a powerful data structure used in C#. Arrays are used to store collections of data of the same type. This tutorial will explain the benefits and uses of arrays in C# and how to declare, initialize, access and loop through them.



<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Declaring an Array

To declare an array in C#, you must specify the type of the array, followed by the array name and size inside brackets. Here is an example of declaring an integer array called `myArray` of size 4:

```csharp
int[] myArray = new int[4];
```

The `int` in this example indicates that the array will contain integer values. You can also declare other types including `string`, `double`, `float` and `bool`. Here is an example of declaring a string array called `myStringArray` of size 6:

```csharp
string[] myStringArray = new string[6];
```

## Initializing an Array

Once an array is declared, you can initialize it with values. There are two ways to do this. The first way is to set each array element to a value one at a time. Here is an example of initializing our `myArray` array with the integers 1, 2, 3 and 4:

```csharp
myArray[0] = 1;
myArray[1] = 2;
myArray[2] = 3;
myArray[3] = 4;
```

The second way is to use the `Array.Initialize` method. This method takes two arguments: the array and an array of values to be initialized. Here is an example of initializing our `myArray` array with the integers 1, 2, 3 and 4 using the `Array.Initialize` method:

```csharp
int[] values = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
Array.Initialize(myArray, values);
```

## Checking the Length of an Array

You can check the length of an array by using the `Array.Length` property. Here is an example of checking the length of our `myArray` array:

```csharp
int length = myArray.Length;
```

The `length` variable in this example will be set to 4.

## Accessing and Setting Values

Once an array is initialized, you can access and set the values inside it. To access an array element, you must specify the index of the element inside the brackets. The index of the first element is 0 and the last element is the array length - 1. Here is an example of accessing the second element of our `myArray` array:

```csharp
int secondElement = myArray[1];
```

The `secondElement` variable in this example will be set to 2. You can also set the value of an element by using the same syntax. Here is an example of setting the second element of our `myArray` array to the integer 5:

```csharp
myArray[1] = 5;
```

## Looping Through an Array

You can loop through an array to access or set the values of its elements. There are two ways to do this. The first way is to use a traditional `for` loop. Here is an example of looping through our `myArray` array and printing each element:

```csharp
for (int i = 0; i < myArray.Length; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine(myArray[i]);
}
```

This will produce the output:

```
1
5
3
4
```

The second way is to use a `foreach` loop. Here is an example of looping through our `myArray` array and printing each element:

```csharp
foreach (int element in myArray)
{
    Console.WriteLine(element);
}
```

This will produce the same output as before.

## Example

Let's put all of this together in an example. We will declare an array of strings which are members of the justice league of america. We will call the array `justiceLeague`. We will loop through the array and print each member's name in a list that starts with the number 1.

```csharp
string[] justiceLeague = new string[] {"Batman", "Superman", "Wonder Woman", "Flash", "Cyborg", "Aquaman"};

int count = 1;

foreach (string member in justiceLeague)
{
    Console.WriteLine(count + ". " + member);
    count++;
}
```

This will produce the output:

```
1. Batman
2. Superman
3. Wonder Woman
4. Flash
5. Cyborg
6. Aquaman
```

## Conclusion

In this tutorial we have covered the benefits and uses of arrays in C#. We have seen how to declare an array using different types including int and string. We have seen the different ways to initialize an array. We have seen how to check the length of an array. We have seen how to access and set values in an array. We have seen how to loop over an array using a traditional for loop and a foreach loop. We have seen an example of declaring an array of strings which are members of the justice league of america. This concludes our tutorial on arrays in C#.