---
layout: page
title: "Enums"
nav_order: 5
parent: "Tutorials"
---

<!--
Generated by openai and modified for readability and understanding
Write a tutorial explaining how to use enums and when to use them over a class in C#.

1. What is an enum?
2. When to use an enum over a class?
3. Example: enum Season
    a. The example should use the functional switch pattern matching style
    b. The example should not use the case keyword

The tutorial should be written in markdown

-->

# Introduction to Enums
{: .no_toc }
Enums, or enumerations, are a powerful data type in the C# language. They are used to represent a set of related values, and are particularly useful for defining a set of choices for a variable.

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## What is an Enum?
An enum is a value type that is used to represent a set of related values. For example, a variable of type enum can be used to represent a set of choices such as seasons, days of the week, or colors. Enums are useful because they provide an easy way to define and access a set of related values, while also allowing the programmer to easily add new values in the future if needed.

## When to use an Enum over a Class
Enums are more efficient than classes in many cases, as they are faster and take up less memory. Enums are also more type-safe than classes, as they can only contain values that are defined within the enum. Classes, on the other hand, are more flexible and can contain methods in addition to variables.

Enums should be used when the set of values is known in advance and is unlikely to change in the future. Classes should be used when the set of values is unknown or likely to change in the future.

## Example: Enum Season
In this example, we will create an enum to represent the four seasons. We will use the functional switch pattern matching style and will not use the case keyword.

First, we will define the enum:

```csharp
public enum Season
{
    Spring,
    Summer,
    Fall,
    Winter
}
```

Next, we will create a function that takes in a Season and returns a string based on the season:

```csharp
public string GetSeasonString(Season season)
{
    return season switch
    {
        Season.Spring => "It's Spring!",
        Season.Summer => "It's Summer!",
        Season.Fall => "It's Fall!",
        Season.Winter => "It's Winter!",
        _ => throw new ArgumentException("Invalid Season"),
    };
}
```

Finally, we can call the function and pass in a Season to get the desired result:

```csharp
string result = GetSeasonString(Season.Summer);
Console.WriteLine(result); // Outputs "It's Summer!"
```

## Conclusion
Enums are a powerful data type in C# and are useful for representing a set of related values. They are more efficient than classes and should be used when the set of values is known in advance and is unlikely to change in the future. Classes should be used when the set of values is unknown or likely to change in the future.